= API Twister Ruby Gem

== What

The api-twister gem is a ruby DSL to define non-trivial APIs.

It works with Rails 2, Rails 3, and without Rails (you will need ActiveSupport, though). It works with ruby 1.9.1 and 1.9.2, and possibly others.

== Why

Defining a simple REST API in Rails that returns simple objects is easy. Do it.

However, if you are returning nested objects, want to include methods in your responses, or want to exclude certain attributes, the basic configuration methods can get ugly quickly. Also if you have different serialization options and do not want to use HTTP response codes to describe them (for example, no results were found in a search), things can get ugly. This library hides much of the ugly. It puts knowledge of what attributes, methods, and associations to return in each model class. It allows you to define different named serialization options. 

== Installation

  gem install api-twister

=== Rails 3:

Add to your Gemfile:
  
  gem 'api-twister'

=== Rails 2:

Add to your environment.rb:

  config.gem 'api-twister'

== The Big Picture

1. Define your API methods in your models using api_define.
2. Call to_api_json/to_api_xml to serialize your models. These methods use api_hash to build an options hash based on what you defined in your models.
3. Build sample requests/responses for tests.
4. Build real requests/responses for controllers and documentation pages.

== Show me some code!

  class Monkey < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_many :bananas

    include ApiTwister
    
    define_api do |api|
      api.methods :behavior, :favorite_number, :status
      api.association :bananas
    end

    api :request, :only => [:name]
    api :response                           # default is everything in define_api
    api :error_response, :only => [:status]

    def behavior
      name == 'Mr. Bananas' ? 'Good' : 'Bad'
    end

    def favorite_number
      rand(10)
    end

    def status
      valid? ? 'OK' : 'Error'
    end
  end

  class Banana < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :monkey

    include ApiTwister

    define_api {|a| a.method :edible}

    api :request
    api :response

    def edible
      created_at > 10.days.ago ? 'Yes' : 'No'    
    end
  end

# TODO - more docs


== Development

Fork away. Please create a topic branch and write passing tests if you are submitting a pull request.

  git clone git://github.com/yourname/api-twister.git
  cd api-twister
  bundle install
  rake test
  git checkout -b your_fix

== Credits

Scott Jacobsen

Tee Parham
